=API Function Documentation=

==Call API Actions==
  * [CreateCall Create Call]
    * Create a call and return the media server address and call id. 

* [[Create Invite]]
**Create an invite to a particular call and return an invite id.

* [[Join Call]]
**Get the media server / callId from an inviteId.

* [[Validate Call ID]]
** Returns whether or not a call id still exists

==Contacts API Actions==
* [[Add Contact]]
**Add users to your TokBox contact list.

* [[Is Friend]]
**Get the relation between two users.

* [[Remove Contact]]
**Remove a user from your TokBox contact list.

==Feed API Actions==
* [[Add Comment]]
**Add a comment on the end of the specified post

* [[Delete Call Event| Delete Missed Call from Feed]]
**Delete a call event from the feed

* [[Delete VMail | Delete VMail from Feed]]
**Removes a video mail from a user's feed/inbox.

* [[Get All Post Comments | Get All of the Comments on a Post]]
**Returns a list of all the comments associated with a given post

* [[Get Feed]]
**Return the user's feed.

* [[Get Feed Unread Count]]
**Returns the number of unread feed items

* [[Mark Call Event Viewed | Mark Missed Call as Read in Feed]]
**Mark a call event as viewed

* [[Mark VMail Read | Mark VMail as Read]]
**Mark a video mail read.

==Token API Actions==
* [[Get Request Token]]
**Creates a request token tied to the creating partner.
**This can be exchanged on the TokBox site for an access token, which is then passed to API calls as authentication on user actions.

* [[Validate Access Token]]
**Ensures that the access token and the associated user are correlated by the TokBox system.

==User API Actions==
* [[Create Guest User]]
**Create a guest user on the TokBox jabber server to make/receive calls.

* [[Get User Profile]]
**Returns - User ID, Jabber ID, First Name, Last Name, Display Name, Username - about a user.

* [[Register User]]
**Register a user with the system

==VMail API Actions==
* [[Forward VMail]]
**Forward a video mail to either TokBox contacts or a list of e-mail contacts.

* [[Get VMail]]
**Return information about a video mail

* [[Post Public VMail]]
**Post a video mail into the public feed.

* [[Send VMail]]
**Send a video mail to either TokBox contacts or a list of e-mail contacts.