#summary The TokBox video recorder embed adds video recording capabilities to any web page.
=Video Recorder Widget=

== About ==

The TokBox video recorder embed adds video recording and video mail capabilities to any web page. This page explains how to easily generate embed code as well as some of the customization features available for this embed.


== Quick Start ==
  * Click [http://www.tokbox.com/#embed=vmail here] to get started building your own custom video recorder embed

== Customization ==

The video recorder embed can be customized by setting specific values to a range of flash vars.  In addition, the embed exposes an external java script interface that allows the application developer to interact with the video call in real time. 

=== Flashvar Parameters ===

====saveTo====
  * If you want to skip the "Send To" screen, then this flash var can be set, and needs to be the user ID of the receipient
  * _e.g. saveTo=1 where 1 is the user ID of the user to whom you are sending the video mail_

====vmailFirstName====
  * The developer sets the first name of the sender.
  * _Note that this will only work if your users are logged out of TokBox. This feature only works in guest mode._

====vmailFromEmail====
  * The developer sets the From: e-mail address of the recording.
  * _Note that this will only work if your users are logged out of TokBox. This feature only works in guest mode._

====vmailToEmail====
  * The developer sets the To: e-mail address of the recording.
  * _Note that this will only work if your users are logged out of TokBox. This feature only works in guest mode._

=== JavaScript Interface ===
====Getting VMail ID====
This function will return the VMail Content ID for the just sent video mail. This will allow you to pull the video mail from the user's feed, and put the appropriate video mail into your application. _Note: You will need to look up the message ID of the video mail from the content ID that you receive with this function call_

{{{
function vmailSent(vmailID) {
	alert(vmailID);
}
}}}

====Adding Recipient E-mail Addresses====
This function will allow you to dynamically add e-mail addresses to the recipient list of your video mail. This assumes that the ID of your recorder widget is tbx_recorder. Change the tbx_recorder value as appropriate.

{{{
function addEmail(address) {
	document.getElementById("tbx_recorder").addEmailRecipient(address);
}
}}}